---
layout: post
title: Intel NUC and single disk ZFS
---
Yesterday I started to backuo my NAS data to the new WD Duo 24T, however the NAS halt when copying the data. I tried to look for root cause via checking syslog, dmesg, top, etc... but no luck, it is not disk failure neither. i suspect the NAS was poorly designed in hardware that cannot survive under stressed USB data transfer (after tranferring 8T data) , as it was fine if I do the data copy thru network. So I gonna setup my newly arrived NUC to help backup the data via network.

The intel NUC is a refurbished 8 generation i5 8 core version, with extra bay to install a 2.5 inch hard disk in addition to m.2 storage slot. My original plan was to setup a homelab, but now i try to set it up as a temporary backup helper machine, and mining station for Chia Coin.

The NUC is in great condition and it costs only HKD 2,000. i bought a Kingston 32GB RAM for around HKD 1,200 , and found some old storage,  including a crucial MX500 m.2 SSD, and a mechanical 750GB disk for Chia coin plotting (should be able to handle two plots in parallel). So the whole setup only cost me around HKD 3,200.

I setup a Ubnuntu 20.04 on the NUC with ZFS disk encryption enabled, the intention of using ZFS is to familiar with it so that I can switch my NAS to use ZFS for more secure data storge (against silent corruption which RAID5 cannot detect). To turn on encryption you have to modify the ubiquity script. After booting up the desktop install ISO, select "Try Ubuntu", fire up a terminal and change the following file

/usr/share/ubiquity/zsys-setup

change the zpool create command for rpool

echo YOUR_PASSWORD_WITHOUT_QUOTE | zpool create -f \

add following options in zpool create command parameters

                -O encryption=aes-256-gcm \
                -O keylocation=prompt \
                -O keyformat=passphrase \

note that i stripped off the parameter recordsize recommended from the blog as my data contains a lot of small sized ng worth to mention is that I flashed the BIOS, reset to default and turned on secure boot to make sure things work securely. I also set the graphic memory to maximum (1G) as I am connecting it to a 21:9 2K monitor.




